.\"
.\" MAN PAGE COMMENTS to
.\"
.\"     Michael Robb
.\"     msar2020@gmail.com
.\"
.\"     Last Change: Wed Jan 19 20:50:40 EST 2011
.\"
.TH atariconv 1 "JANUARY 2011" BASCONV LOCAL
.SH NAME
atariconv \- A utility to convert tokenized Atari 400/800(XL)/1200/130XE BASIC 
files (.BAS) back into ASCII or list files (.LST)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B atariconv [options] [file]
.B ...
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B atariconv
is Copyright (C) 1989-2011 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B atariconv
is a command line utility program to convert tokenised Atari BASIC .BAS 
files to human readable ASCII text, typically named .LST files. Variables 
command line argument give control over the conversion and display of data.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBatariconv\fR accepts the following command line options:
.IP "-h"
Display help text from the command line program. This text is also displayed
if no command line arguments are provided.
.IP \-v 
Enables verbosity mode. Provides progress messages from each stage of the
program.
.IP \-w "\| width\^"
Set screen width used when displaying the text of the BASIC program.
.IP \-A
Display the tokenized BASIC program as regular ASCII text.
.IP \-B
Use BASIC .BAS file for input
.IP \-D 
Dump token buffer to standard output
.IP \-d
Dump partially decoded token buffer per line to standard output. 
.IP \-e
Dump extended token buffer information per line to standard output.
.IP \-F 
Fix variable table. Sometimes the variable name string table can get 
corrupted or blanked out. This can be repaired by naming variables 
according to their basic type; scalar float/integer, character string, 
or array.
.IP \-H
Use hexdump file for input. The hexdump file is simply an ASCII hex-dump
of a tokenized .BAS program with 32 hexadecimal bytes per line. The top and
bottom lines consist of fives dashes.
.IP \-L 
Show last line. Normally, this is the command string that was used to save
the file to disk eg. SAVE "D1:MYFILE.BAS"
.IP \-T 
Use termcap to display inverse characters. 
.IP \-V 
Dump the variable table to standard output
.RE
.SH COMMON USAGE
To display the variable name table only, use: 
.TP
.PP
\fBatariconv\fR -V -A
.PP
To display the tokens line-by-line as well as the ASCII code, use:
.TP
.PP
\fBatariconv\fR -d 
.PP
To display the tokens alone, use:
.TP
.PP
\fBatariconv\fR -d -A
.SH FILES
No other files required
.SH ENVIRONMENT
No environment variables are used at present
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Specified by the 
.B -D
option, the 
.B -V
option and the
.B -v
option.
.RE
.SH BUGS
None at present
.SH AUTHOR
Michael S. A. Robb (msar @ magicportal.homelinux.org)
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
.B atari800 (1)
.PP
.TP
\fBDe Re Atari\fR by Chris Crawford
